# Case data format

A case's data is the combination of the data for each field of the case.

The case data itself is represented as a Json object `{}` containing key-value pairs for each field of the case.

The type and format of a value for a given field is solely determined by the type of the field.

## Field types

In all the following examples, the key `FieldId` can be any valid case field ID, as defined by the case type.

### Text

A `Text` value is a `string`.

```json
{
  "FieldId": "Some text"
}
```

### Number

A `Number` value can be a `number` or `string`. Strings should be preferred for floating point precision.

```json
{
  "FieldId": "12.34"
}
```

### YesOrNo

A `YesOrNo` value is a case insensitive `string` being either `yes` or `no`.

```json
{
  "FieldId": "Yes"
}
```

### PhoneUK

A `PhoneUK` value is a `string` representing a valid UK phone number.

```json
{
  "FieldId": "07123456789"
}
```

### Email

A `Email` value is a `string` representing a valid email address.

```json
{
  "FieldId": "ccd@hmcts.net"
}
```

### MoneyGBP

A `MoneyGBP` value is a `string` representing a monetary value in pence.

For example, £42 would be:

```json
{
  "FieldId": "4200"
}
```

### Date

A `Date` value is a valid ISO 8601 `string` without the time part.

For example, the 29th August 2017 would be:

```json
{
  "FieldId": "2017-08-29"
}
```

### TextArea

A `TextArea` value is a `string`. It contain `\n` to represent line breaks.

```json
{
  "FieldId": "Line1\nLine2"
}
```

### FixedList

A `FixedList` value is a `string` exactly matching the code of one the pre-defined options for that list.

For example, given a list with options `Option1` and `Option2`.

```json
{
  "FieldId": "Option1"
}
```

### MultiSelectList

A `MultiSelectList` value is an `array` of `string`, where each `string` item is exactly matching the code of one the pre-defined options for that list.

For example, given a list with options `Option1` and `Option2`.

```json
{
  "FieldId": ["Option1", "Option2"]
}
```

### Complex

A complex value is a Json `object` composed of key-value pairs complying to the complex type definition as defined as part of the case type.

For example, given a field `FieldId` of complex type `Address` with fields `StreetNumber` of type `Number` and `StreetName` of type `Text`:

```json
{
  "FieldId": {
    "StreetNumber": "42",
    "StreetName": "Petty France"
  }
}
```

Same rules applies for the content of a complex type and the content of case data.
As such, a complex type field can be a complex type itself:

```json
{
  "ComplexField1": {
    "SimpleField1": "42",
    "ComplexField2": {
      "SimpleField2": "Some value"
    }
  }
}
```

### Collection

A `Collection` value is a Json `array`. However, due to data classification constraints, each collection item's value must placed in a `value` property of a Json `object` of the following shape:

```json
{
  "id": "Optional. When missing, generated by CCD. Uniquely identifies a collection item",
  "value": "Actual value of the collection item"
}
```

This means that the collection `array` itself only contains `object`s and the actual values are contained within those `object`s.

Each collection item will be assigned a unique ID when first created so that it can be uniquely identified. Consequently, `id` property should be omitted for new items, but provided for existing items.

Thus, a collection of `Text` would initially be created as:

```json
{
  "FieldId": [
    {
      "value": "Value 1"
    },
    {
      "value": "Value 2"
    }
  ]
}
```

And later updated as:

```json
{
  "FieldId": [
    {
      "id": "db7d76b6-17d6-4aac-9f02-14edaedb5cbb",
      "value": "Changing existing item"
    },
    {
      "id": "db7d76b6-17d6-4aac-9f02-12345667899",
      "value": "Value 2"
    },
    {
      "value": "New item"
    }
  ]
}
```

A collection of a complex type would be:

```json
{
  "FieldId": [
    {
      "value": {
        "ComplexField1": "Value 1"
      }
    },
    {
      "value": {
        "ComplexField1": "Value 2"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

An empty collection would be:

```json
{
  "FieldId": []
}
```

### Document

A `Document` value is a Json `object`. We accept the following structure with one `document_url` field that is mandatory. This field's value is the url that points to the previously uploaded document metadata.

```json
{
  "document_url": "http://..."
}
```

Once this gets sent to us we will retrieve the relevant metadata and send you back:

```json
{
  "document_url": "http://",
  "document_binary_url": "http://",
  "document_filename": ""
}
```
